(upbeat music)
- [Instructor] In a multi-user environment
with a large history, it's harder to detect
when the changes were made by an individual.
So how would you look for specific changes
that only you made to a specific line of text?
I'll give you a couple of seconds
to think about how you do something like this.
(upbeat music)
All right, that's just perfect for the git blame command.
It's sort of the cousin of the git log command,
but it works on individual files
and gives you more information
about who changed what on a specific file.
Let's check out our index.HTML file
that's in this build folder, and it's right here,
to see what sort of changes have been made
to the file by individuals.
So I can just do a git blame
and then look for the build folder
and look for this index.HTML file.
Now, if you keep scrolling through this,
it's going to show you every single change that was done
and it's also going to show you the ID
of the commit where you changed that file.
That's pretty interesting
because you can now see which commit
and what person made a change at that specific commit.
If you had a lot of people working on this document,
that can be quite useful.
Let's go ahead and exit by hitting the Q key
and now I'm going to try something slightly different
so I can add a few flags that I find pretty useful.
So, if you don't want to see the person who did the commit,
you can just issue a -s option
and now you can just see the commit hash right here
as well as the line number,
so that's a little bit better.
Now, what if you wanted to take a look
at a specific number of lines?
Let's go ahead and Q again
and we'll do a git blame,
we'll do -s still, but I'm also going to do a -L command
and I can include a couple of numbers here,
so I can say, just show me the first three lines
and it'll show me just those three lines,
or I can also say, start at line one
and then add a number of lines with this plus sign
and I can say, just show me the first five lines.
That's a quick way to get to a specific line number
in your project and take a look
at the commits that were made
and so therefore, you can go in here and take a look
at this hash and copy that and issue maybe a log
on a specific hash to see what happened
to the file at that point.